What is the project?
We are moving to the fourth part of our video training,
the event as a project.
First, we will talk about the project characteristics of the event.
What brings the event closer to the project?
First, the event has a goal, measurable results,
there is a time limit, the beginning and the end of the event,
and there is a limited amount of resources that are spent for the production of the event,
resources not only for the monetary, but also for the human and other.
The event is separated from other ideas,
we can describe the event as a separate case,
although it is undoubtedly connected with the general communication strategy of the company,
with other promotions, with direct advertising, and so on.
Nevertheless, we can highlight it, and therefore it is a project with its own framework.
There is an org structure that is created for the project.
This is either a project group within the company,
but usually it is a more complex social hierarchy
that includes representatives of the company
and contractors who are involved in the implementation of the event.
Contractors, in turn, have their own org structure,
for example, the structure within the event company,
some subcontractors with whom they work, and so on.
That is, we are talking about some kind of scheme of interaction of various project participants.
We move on to determining the goal.
This is one of the systematic features of the project.
The project should always have a goal,
unlike basic activity, which is constantly repeated in some familiar examples.
In order for the goal of the event to be formulated correctly,
it must meet several requirements.
First, it must be specific enough, not blurry.
Secondly, the goal must be measurable.
Since the goal sets the expected results of the event,
then the measurement is necessary,
otherwise we will not be able to indicate what informational and other effect the event had.
Thirdly, the goal must be achievable.
No need to formulate some too big, too global goal.
Such a goal can be formulated in the mission of the company,
because the mission should inspire.
As for the development task and the goal of a particular event,
it should be quite specific and local.
And there are time restrictions,
because the event has a beginning and an end,
and we cannot implement too many tasks in these narrow time frames.
What are the possible goals that could be formulated?
On the one hand, it can be an increase in brand awareness.
This can be calculated by sociological surveys.
On the other hand, it is publicity,
getting free publications in mass media,
increasing sales, in this case, revenue and profit are considered,
sales can be considered both at the event and outside it.
Here you need to establish a correlation between the marketing event and sales outside.
Expanding contacts can be another goal.
In this case, I mean contacts,
primarily with those who are interested in using your services or goods.
Training and team building can be the goal of a special event,
if it is a corporate event.
But in the case of communicating with the consumer,
with the brand and holding free training seminars,
for example, there is an experience of holding seminars on training housewives using microwaves.
In this case, training and the ability of the participant of the educational seminar
to use this technique, this product, is also one of the results.
The emotional reaction of the participants can also be recorded and measured.
This is also one of the possible goals.
Task 10.
Assess the following formulation of the goal of the event according to the above criteria.
1. Increase the loyalty of employees to the company.
2. Increase labor productivity.
3. Create a positive emotional microclimate in the team.
Assess this statement according to the above criteria.
The recommended time for completing the task is 7-10 minutes.
Let's check the results.
First, looking at this text, we understand that the goal is not quite specific.
What does loyalty mean?
How is it measured in this case?
Labor productivity, how is it measured?
The goal can be measured, but quite weakly,
because it is very difficult to measure loyalty.
You can measure labor productivity,
but it is difficult to establish a correlation between the event and the achieved production effect.
You can create a positive microclimate in the team,
but the time factor is not taken into account,
because one event is not enough to create a positive microclimate.
Even if this is done in the short term,
it is not a fact that the achieved effect can be fixed in the future.
In this regard, the event is not self-sufficient.
I would like to give a good example from the book by the German author,
Halsbauer, which has four other authors.
I will mention this book a little later.
The event was a tour sponsored by the beer brand Becks.
The goals were as follows.
To provide a positive experience for the audience.
We are talking about a concert, open air, open sky,
beer that is distributed in some branded devices,
poured into branded glasses,
promotional products are distributed,
which are kept by the participants of the event.
Selling beer in a can at concerts.
This is another goal that can be measured by sales.
Spreading advertising gifts.
Support through direct advertising and through promotions in places of sale.
The ability to implement integrated marketing communications.
This is a good way to formulate goals.
To make it easier for you to formulate a goal,
I would like to make an addition.
This is a recommendation that I heard from my colleague,
the consultant Vladislav Tarasenko.
He uses this triad of want, can, will.
When we define the goal of the event,
we must first determine what we want.
It is clear that our needs are limitless,
and we want a lot.
Then we move on to the I can stage
and determine what resources we have.
Then it turns out that not everything we would like
we can actually implement.
Then we limit the initial goal.
Then we move on to the I will stage.
This is what you really intend to do right now.
This is the activity that you would like to implement
and are able to implement.
Then the goal is usually a little more limited.
Because no matter how beautiful the project is,
there is not always an organizational potential of the company
to implement it.
Task 11.
Formulate the goal of a hypothetical corporate event
using the above criteria for determining the goal.
We move on to the part called the contractor search.
The fact is that, as a rule,
marketers, and within our course we are talking about marketing tasks,
do not engage in special events
and delegate it to professional event managers.
We have already said that there is a difference
between event management and event marketing.
And here the question arises about the search of a contractor
who could really implement successful events of a certain type.
In order to correctly choose a contractor,
you need to know at what stage of development
the Russian event industry is located.
A little bit about the history of the Russian event business.
At the turn of the 80s and 90s,
in fact, there were no event companies in Russia.
There were individual activists in production,
directors and production designers,
freelance artists who had skills and experience
in organizing special events.
But of course, at that time,
the organizer was rather a calling.
Many were not yet trained even in management.
Therefore, there was no need to talk about the profession of event manager,
especially about event companies.
Then the 90s passed under the banner of holiday companies.
They were usually called like that.
And at the turn of the 90s and 2000s,
this industry underwent drastic changes.
The fact is that at that time,
there were already quite a lot of
qualified and professional marketers,
professional PR specialists,
and these people wanted the events
that the company held to be tied to their business tasks.
And at that moment, on the one hand,
new companies began to appear,
which called themselves event companies.
On the other hand, already existing holiday agencies
began to rename themselves.
As a rule, the name remained the same,
but the introduction changed.
For example, the company began to name itself
as a company called the Russian Event Company.
For example, the company began to be called
not a holiday agency, but an event agency,
or an event company,
or an event marketing agency,
or a special events agency, and so on.
But, of course, the transformation of holiday companies
into event companies was quite difficult,
and this process is still ongoing.
And the renaming of the company often served
as a disguise of the old holiday agency
for the new samples that were required
in the new Russian business environment.
But along with this, there was another tendency.
First, event agencies were opened,
which were headed by people who were experts in marketing.
And secondly, there was a specialization of event companies
for some tasks.
This is how giant companies were formed,
which grew out of holiday agencies,
and small companies that specialize
in various areas of event business.
On the slide, you can see the main types of event companies,
which we will list.
These are holiday agencies,
they still exist,
but in terms of the tasks and goals
that we consider within our course,
they are less interesting.
Full-cycle companies.
This is a rather interesting variety of companies.
On the one hand, they have an organizational basis
to implement large-scale events.
On the other hand, event agencies of the full cycle
are those companies that smaller companies delegate their tasks to.
For example, not all companies have a technical department,
their own sound equipment,
their own screenwriters, designers, and so on.
Full-cycle companies have these work resources.
But unfortunately, according to my observations,
most event companies of the full cycle
are professional organizers.
Therefore, in order to maximize their effectiveness,
it is best if they work in a team,
for example, with a PR agency
or with your marketing department,
which develops the concepts
that match the events of the brands.
On the other hand, there are PR agencies.
Most of them offer special events
and use the words event marketing,
special events, and so on in their presentation materials.
Unfortunately, PR companies,
when they enter the PR segment,
and sometimes even in the corporate events sector,
can only organize press events well.
Therefore, we should focus on
the fact that we should entrust the press event to PR agencies,
but not entrust them with other types of events
that they cannot organize effectively.
And this will be in any case subcontract.
Along with this,
there are advertising agencies of the full cycle
in the industry of special events.
Advertising agencies can be said to be
that, of course, there are cases when such large agencies
organized, for example, events on team building,
but of course this is not their profile.
Sometimes they organize press events,
because sometimes these agencies have PR departments,
good PR people who can do it.
And, as a rule, advertising agencies of the full cycle
in the event component can do
product presentations and BTL promotions.
BTL agencies.
I have already said that this industry thinks of itself
in such an expansion of tasks,
but in principle, BTL agencies are mainly
presentations, sampling, and they can be entrusted with this.
Exhibition companies.
They organize exhibitions or provide services
that allow to increase the effectiveness of this part.
For example, they are engaged in the design of stands,
provide some post materials, and so on.
Undoubtedly, these companies need to be provided with services
if you want to organize a professional exhibition.
Training and team building.
This is another industry that is somehow
associated with event business.
Unfortunately, these agencies are not always
conscientious.
Of course, there are specialized event companies
that are engaged in team building,
and they can be entrusted with corporate events,
because, as a rule, they have this experience.
But those companies that are positioned as training
and as additional services offer
the organization of corporate events,
are, as a rule, companies that do not have
much organizational experience.
Just doing, say, psychotraining,
they had experience in organizing
team building events.
This is not the same as, say,
a large corporate event for 100 or more people.
Pay attention to the possibility of specialization
of various event companies.
Let's repeat once again.
These are holiday companies.
These are only holidays.
The agencies of the full cycle can organize
mass events.
They have a production base for this.
PR agencies.
It is better to concentrate on
holding a press conference and presentations
in cooperation with them.
Advertising agencies of the full cycle
can hold promo and presentations well,
and sometimes press events,
if there is a good PR department.
BTL agencies are, in fact,
a classic BTL and exhibition work.
Exhibition companies can organize
only exhibitions.
Companies that are engaged in training
and team building can organize
trainings, intensives,
sometimes including going abroad,
hold team building events
and corporate holidays.
Task 12.
Find a correspondence between
the tasks of the event
and the type of event agency.
Who can be entrusted with the event,
what type of event.
Check the results.
So, we had two columns
and we had to find a correspondence.
A holiday agency can successfully
hold a festival,
but it is better to work in tandem
with a PR agency.
A holiday agency can organize
a New Year's corporate party,
especially if the task is
mostly holiday and relaxing.
And that's it.
An event agency of the full cycle
can organize a festival very well,
because it is usually a mass event.
And in some cases,
you can entrust the event agency
of the full cycle with a New Year's corporate party,
especially if the business task
is not being implemented,
but the task is purely organizational.
A PR agency can hold a press conference
and in some cases
a presentation of products
for a small number of participants.
A BTL agency can hold
a presentation of products
and that's it from this list.
But there are agencies that have
a lot of experience in organizing festivals,
and you can entrust them with this.
A company that specializes
in training and team building
can hold a New Year's corporate party
in some cases,
if it is not a purely training company,
but an event company
specializing in team building.
Usually, they have some experience,
some projects related to New Year's
and other corporate events.
When looking for a contractor,
you need to have a good understanding
of the quality and composition of the projects.
Usually, this is stated on the company's website.
In this case, it is better
not to pay attention
to the client lists.
I did a monitoring of the client lists
of leading Moscow event companies
and found that they often
coincide
with a large percentage.
What is it connected with?
First, the client lists
are often very small.
They are often not very large.
Therefore,
positioning of the event companies
often does not have a unique offer
that makes the client stay.
That is why contractors are often changed.
On the other hand,
there can be former clients
in the client list.
In this regard,
cooperation with a well-known company
can be very important.
The client lists
are often very small.
can be very important.
However,
cooperation with a well-known company
is not an advantage
if it ends with a conflict
and the client leaves.
Finally, some large companies
or holding companies
simply divide their tasks
on organizing special events
into several parts.
Regardless of the specialization,
they give it to different event agencies.
The second thing
you should pay attention to
when looking for a contractor
is the first contact.
If you applied to an event agency
and sent them a brief
or a formulated tender
to hold an event
and they contact you in a week or more,
it means that
the contractor does not need you.
Most likely, it is a large agency
with a certain flow.
Maybe it is better
to make a smaller event agency
that will be interested in your project.
It should have experience
in implementing such projects.
The third thing you should pay attention to
is the system of brief questions.
This question is often
mentioned during the first negotiations.
If the contractor's company
is only interested in
the budget of the event,
your first talks,
the first meetings,
the first meetings
with the client,
your common wishes,
and the conversation ends
with the fact that
it makes no sense to cooperate
with the company.
The event business professionals
should be interested in the goal
of the marketing event,
the goal of the HR event,
and so on.
In the extreme case,
if we are talking about professional organizers
who are not familiar with other business technologies,
the contractors' representatives
should be interested
in the logistics of the event,
the scale of the audience,
the venue of the event,
that is, what concerns the organization.
If there are no questions in the brief,
if the brief is very short
and just suggests the type
and budget of the event,
it means that you decide
who you will give a gift to
in the form of this budget,
and not solve your own business tasks.
And, oddly enough,
you should pay attention
to the feedback of your managers,
but not just good feedback
that should interest you,
but feedback that is related
to the implementation of successful projects
for the type of event
that you are looking for.
Why announce a tender?
The question is quite naive,
but at the same time
it is ambiguous.
On the one hand,
the company is a driver of progress.
If the company starts fighting
for your order,
at the start of the relationship
they perceive it differently
if the order is received.
If the order was received
without much effort,
then the possible attitude
to you will be like this.
Professional negotiators recommend
to say no first,
to create some kind of obstacle
during the discussion,
to compromise,
so that the cooperation takes place.
In the case of an announcement of a tender,
this rule also works.
The second important point
that makes us announce a tender
is that the companies,
participating in it,
offer a large number
of concepts of special events,
and you can consider
more creative ideas.
But here I must warn you
that many companies,
when they offer an interesting creative idea,
take it and leave it
to another contractor.
There are blacklists
among the agencies,
which are regularly replenished.
There are ways
of cooperation
of event business representatives,
and therefore it is probably not worth
to strike
your reputation with such machinations.
Therefore, if the company
offered a creative idea
and you want to implement it,
you need to implement it with the same company
in order not to risk your reputation.
There are disadvantages
associated with the announcement of a tender.
On the one hand,
it is very difficult to organize
an honest competition.
In the early 2000s,
event business representatives,
leaders of this field,
generally said that a tender
should not be organized.
This was the position of large event companies,
that if we are market leaders,
let them contact us.
This was an attempt to compete
with competitors in the face of smaller companies,
which segmented
target audiences
of large event companies,
creating additional
specialization options.
Therefore, large companies
sought to save their clients in this way.
Now the situation is a little different,
because the tender
and the announcement of the tender
are not created as a fact of business reality.
Therefore,
the same event companies
have reconsidered their position.
Today, they often
at special events,
events in the industry,
at various conferences,
seminars, talk about the need
to develop rules that allow
fair tenders.
Of course, you know that there is a problem
of rollbacks, which is associated
with the search for contractors.
But, in general,
the presence or absence of rollbacks
when the project is transferred to the contractor
depends on the corporate culture
of the company,
and whether the top management
allows the employees to behave in this way.
Another drawback of the tender
is that it includes
companies that are not
suitable for the client.
This may be a drawback,
or it may not be, because
in the case of an open tender,
the company's managers spend a lot of time
to analyze
the submitted
proposals,
including those of companies that are not interested.
On the other hand,
the tender can be announced
between the companies
to which the request was sent,
and in this regard not to be absolutely open.
Perhaps, this is a compromise
between
giving the order
to the company that has already been recommended
and announcing the tender.
There are resources
for announcing a tender.
Some of them are networked,
some are not.
For example, the Event.ru magazine
is actually an offline
print publication
and is distributed by subscription.
But the magazine has a one-name website,
and the head of this magazine,
his editor,
Andrey Shishenin,
has been supporting
fair tenders
and trying to formulate
some conventional rules
within the event industry
that allow fair participation in the tender.
And, perhaps,
this company can be addressed
by looking for potential contractors.
On the other hand,
there is the eventmarket.ru portal.
This is the oldest portal
in our industry,
which has an option
to announce a tender.
This also allows
to draw conclusions
about the effectiveness of this tool
at the moment.
There is the eventforum.ru resource,
and its founders
can also be contacted
to announce a tender.
And finally, there is the eventmarket.ru community.
Despite the name coincidence,
it is not controlled
by the people
who founded the eventmarket.ru portal.
But this is also an interesting resource
that allows to attract
the attention of the eventers.
What I have to warn you about
is that all the resources
that are aimed
at creating
informational materials
or coordinating
the interaction
within the event industry
are, one way or another,
controlled by some event company.
In this regard,
if you turn to some resource,
it positions itself as independent,
but announces a tender through it,
and the resource is affiliated
with a large event agency,
you will accidentally get into its hands.
In fact, it is easier to find out
who is affiliated with a particular site,
a particular community,
and directly contact
its founders.
On the other hand,
there are some impediments here.
I think that,
despite the fact that event.ru
is considered to be a fully independent publication,
it is a journal
to which founders can
apply for a tender
and get a more or less adequate
independent result.
Next, we move on
to another aspect of the event
as a project activity,
that is, to measure the results
of a special event.
It should be said that the results
of its measurement depend on the goal set.
We have discussed what goals
are adequate for a particular event,
and now we have to name
how the results of the event
correspond to the goals
set.
For example,
the brand's awareness
can be measured
by conducting
some sociological surveys,
by applying for statistics.
Free publications
can be measured
both quantitatively and qualitatively.
The quantitative factor
is interesting
in terms of the information effect of the event,
but the qualitative analysis
is necessary to determine
the context of the brand's mention,
how detailed
the story about the brand
was in a particular article,
in a particular material.
In general, whether the material
or just the information partners
in your industry published the event
pre-release without changing it,
all this can be analyzed.
In addition,
publicity can be determined
not only by the media
and television,
but also by the blogosphere.
The blog's mention,
the context of the mention,
the presence or absence
of photo and video materials
can also be a tasteful paper
of the effectiveness of the event.
Another criterion
of assessment is the sale.
If you sold your product
during the event,
it can be about
the calculation of revenue.
In this case, it is purely monetary.
Another criterion is
the expansion of the number of contacts
obtained as a result of the event.
I will give an example.
A representative of your company
took part in the conference
of a large exhibition.
He received a certain number of business cards.
We can calculate
how many business cards
and contacts were there.
We can deduce
the number of clients
who can really
interact with your company
and allow them to
use your services
or purchase your products.
We can also calculate
the total number
of contacts
which turned into real orders
or real purchases.
There is a certain
complexity here.
A speaker can
work very well
and get a large number
of new contacts.
However, during the further
work of the managers
on the development
after the event,
the work can be done
incorrectly,
the relationship with the potential client
can be wrong,
and the initial
positive effect
can have no effect
on the real sales.
The next direction
of measuring the results of the event
can be training and team building.
In the case of training,
we can measure
the skills and knowledge obtained.
In the case of team building,
we measure
the new role positions
in the team,
the strength of the team,
the strategy of leadership
of certain employees,
and so on.
We can also measure
the emotional reaction of the participants.
It can be measured as a post-factum
by analyzing the feedback
about the event
and by observing
the participants during the event.
This is also a very interesting
material for analysis.
As a conclusion,
let's look at what we learned
and what we learned
during our video training.
We learned what event marketing is,
what is the technology
of promotion of the brand,
what are the ways to create
creative concepts of events.
We learned what determines the success
of certain types of events,
how to find the right contractors
and how to determine the degree of effectiveness
of the event.
We learned how to create creative concepts
of events using different creative technologies,
how to coordinate a creative concept
with the brand platform,
how to determine the types and ways
of participating in events of different types,
how to choose the right contractors,
how to formulate the optimal goals of the event,
how to find criteria for measuring
the effectiveness of events.
In conclusion, I would like to recommend
a book that can expand your understanding
of event marketing technologies.
This is my book
«Events Marketing. Leadership for Customers and Performers».
The book was published in 2006
and now my new work is being prepared
«101 Cases on Event Marketing.
Russian Experience».
The book is written by my colleague
Alexander Shumovich
«Great Events. Technologies and Practices
of Event Management».
It is also beautifully written
and it can be interesting
for your organization.
We talked about marketing tasks of events
and Alexander specializes
in organizational tasks.
There is also a wonderful book
by German authors
Halsbauer and his four co-authors
«Event Management»
published in 2007
by Exmo.
This book is really monumental.
It was not written by accident
by such a large team.
You can find useful information
about organizational aspects of special events
and their marketing components.
The book by Alexander Pasmurov
«How to effectively prepare
and hold a conference, seminar, exhibition»
can also be useful for you.
The author does not write about all events
but mainly about
«business events»
and has a significant experience
in organizing special events
of the business sector.
The book contains
a lot of recommendations
about organizational plan
and recommendations
about communication
of special events.
I also recommend
to read the book
by Bernd Schmidt
and his co-authors
«Business TV Show. Marketing in culture of impressions».
He is one of the authors
who promotes
the concept of «entertainment marketing».
A little earlier he used
the term «empirical marketing».
The book contains
several detailed cases
of event marketing
and motivates those
who want to
set their mind on the creative wave
and create really interesting
and surprising events.
Among the Internet sources
I recommend the website of the off-line publication
«Event.ru».
It will give you a hint
how to subscribe to this publication
and the oldest branch portal
«Eventmarket.ru»
which is constantly updated
and contains a lot of useful information
for those who are interested
in the industry of special events.
Our video training has come to an end.
Good luck!